What excites me about being a product
manager now
is that I can move and iterate much
faster. I can use Claude to test my
product ideas before I even get anyone
else in the loop. I can operate much
more independently, which is extremely
empowering.
Getting data as a product manager is
like a pain point. Usually, you have to
ping a data science person to help you.
Or often product managers can write some
kind of basic SQL themselves and will
have to query a database that they don't
know that much about. I started using
Claude Code, pretty quickly figured out
that we could use it for data analysis
workflows. Our data science team set up
a BigQuery MCP, which essentially
connected all of our BigQuery product
data tables to Claude Code. need to know
how to write SQL. You just need to be a
human interpreter of that data and that
result. So, here I am in Claude Code and
I want to show how you can use Claude to
access product data. Before I started
this demo, I used Claude to generate
some synthetic product data that shows
light mode versus dark mode usage on a
product. I've said I want to explore the
fraction of dark mode usage over the
past 3 months. I'm going to tell it the
data table to look for. So, it just
popped open this graph. This is like
pretty impressive. It's done a whole
bunch of stuff I didn't ask for, like
add a 7-day rolling average, add the
overall average. The graph is nicer than
what I would have put together if I had
done this myself. Say I want to iterate
on this a little bit and take a look.
Maybe we want to look at light mode and
dark mode usage by plan type. Can you
actually plot it by plan type? It's
asking me for permission to make edits.
Sure.
And now we have a plot of the data by
plan type. If I had to do this on my
own, it would take me
possibly hours, if not more. Another way
that my team uses Claude is to help with
generating e-bells. E-bells are a way
that we evaluate AI systems and AI
products. Claude is really great at this
actually. So, you can kind of just give
Claude the situation and the and the
product experience that you're trying to
build, maybe a couple example test
cases, and ask it to expand the options
base of test cases. So, really quickly
you go from one or two examples to test
to like 50 examples to test. So, my hope
is that with Claude product managers are
able to spend more of their time on
product strategy, customer
conversations, and decision-making, and
less time on coordination and
operations. I would say it's like more
than automation for me. Like, it's
things that I
wouldn't have otherwise necessarily even
been capable of doing independently. So,
it's actually like extending what I can
accomplish on my own.